BUILDING.md, before:

# Building the Plugin

## Prerequisites

* Protocol Buffers library from Google
* QtCore from Qt 5

## Linux and BSD

At a terminal command prompt, run

    $ qmake
    $ make

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`protoc-gen-doc`). There's no install step, just copy the executable to
where you want it.

## Windows

Start a Qt/MSVC command prompt, load `vcvarsall.bat` and then run

    > set PROTOBUF_PREFIX=/path/to/protobuf-2.6.1
    > qmake
    > nmake

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`release\protoc-gen-doc.exe`). `PROTOBUF_PREFIX` is the path to where the
protobuf library was built. You can create a standalone ZIP distribution with `nmake
zip`. MSVC is currently the only supported compiler on Windows. Building with MinGW
should work, but the `zip` target is not available. I'll try to fix this in the
future.

## Mac OS X

At a Terminal prompt, run

    $ export PROTOBUF_PREFIX=/path/to/protobuf-2.6.1
    $ qmake
    $ make

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`protoc-gen-doc`). `PROTOBUF_PREFIX` is the path to where the protobuf
library was installed. There's no install step, just copy the executable to where you
want it.

Note that on Mac OS X, the protobuf library should be built with with clang
(`CC=clang` and `CXX=clang++`), or you'll get linker errors.

Commit message:

Update BUILDING.md for Mac installation details
Many thanks for estan's reply about installation on Mac, all these updates come from estan directly. I thought it would be useful for others as well.

BUILDING.md, after:

# Building the Plugin

## Prerequisites

* Protocol Buffers library from Google
* QtCore from Qt 5

## Linux and BSD

At a terminal command prompt, run

    $ qmake
    $ make

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`protoc-gen-doc`). There's no install step, just copy the executable to
where you want it.

## Windows

Start a Qt/MSVC command prompt, load `vcvarsall.bat` and then run

    > set PROTOBUF_PREFIX=/path/to/protobuf-2.6.1
    > qmake
    > nmake

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`release\protoc-gen-doc.exe`). `PROTOBUF_PREFIX` is the path to where the
protobuf library was built. You can create a standalone ZIP distribution with `nmake
zip`. MSVC is currently the only supported compiler on Windows. Building with MinGW
should work, but the `zip` target is not available. I'll try to fix this in the
future.

## Mac OS X

### Install Build Tools

If you do not have Homebrew, install it first, see [here](http://brew.sh) for instructions.

Then, at a Terminal prompt, run:
```
brew update
brew install qt5 protobuf
brew link --force qt5
export PROTOBUF_PREFIX=$(brew --prefix protobuf)
git clone git@github.com:estan/protoc-gen-doc.git
cd protoc-gen-doc
qmake
make
```

in the top-level directory to build the plugin. This will produce the plugin
executable (`protoc-gen-doc`). `PROTOBUF_PREFIX` is the path to where the protobuf
library was installed. There's no install step, just copy the executable to where you
want it, or specify the path to `protoc-gen-doc` with --plugin.

Note that on Mac OS X, the protobuf library should be built with with clang
(`CC=clang` and `CXX=clang++`), or you'll get linker errors.

If you need even more detailed instructions, you can look at the Travis build file (https://github.com/estan/protoc-gen-doc/blob/master/.travis.yml). The tool is built and tested regularly on Mac OS X, and that file contains the exact steps.
